Hi everyone, I am happy to announce that I have a patent pending in the broad area of Edtech. The developed method helps grade hand written assignments with mathematical expressions. This way, a subjective problem can be graded automatically and the software will be able to allow step marking. The developed method can not only identify the wrong derivations, but it can also point out the mistakes and suggest the corrections.. I am really excited about this algorithm.

With increasingly available answers to all engineering and math problems through the internet and various subscription services, it has become extremely easy for students to cheat on homework problems. They can get correct answers easily without having to work for the solutions. At the same time, it is evident that learning is corroborated by applying the knowledge, hence the importance of subjective problems with quantitative reasoning can’t be neglected.  

Because of widespread availability of solutions, there is ongoing research on creating new problems by Artificial Intelligence that would be similar to problems generated by subject matter experts, and at the same time there is ongoing research on creating language models that can solve quantitative reasoning problems in detailed steps from topics like mathematics and engineering, hence still making the solutions readily available to students.

With more problems in homework and quizzes, there comes an endless amount of work of grading these assignments. While automatic grading can only be done for objective problems, e.g. using scantron or most of the available learning management systems, subjective problems have to be graded manually. Universities with resources, usually hire teaching assistants from their pool of graduate students to do this work, but smaller universities and high schools are out of option on this.

Automated grading will help free up time from grading for teachers and teaching assistants to actually help students understand the material and hence increase the quality of education everywhere. I believe that everything a teaching assistant does, can be automated with 100% accuracy. I have a patent pending on this method and I am excited about opportunities on this project.
